## PI12 - I4

### Overview

This release introduces several significant changes that teams should be aware of.  Most of these changes affect Java services only.

* **Java Services Checklist**

A new pipeline named `Medusa` that is used for `Java services only`. Please, make sure to follow the below release notes very carefully. Here's a quick checklist summarizing the changes:

* Java services must migrate over to the new `Medusa` pipeline. Changes to service to work with `Medusa` pipeline (please see release notes below for more info on each of these):
  1. Repository name **MUST** match `domain.market.applicationName.git`. Rename repository if this is incorrect for your service before moving to new jenkins. Check the [cost tags validator metadata file](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa-data-validator#aws-cost-tag-application-metadata) to validate inputs.
  2. Move over to `jenkins-refarch15b`. applicationdefinition.yaml -> new format
  3. Jenkinsfile -> new format
  4. Tests: `medusa` requires atleast 1 e2e test exposed via the `e2etests` gradle task under tests/e2e, and 1 perf test under tests/performance directories.
    * move existing e2e/perf tests to the folder structure that is required by medusa
    * remove /e2e/models sub-dir as it is not longer required.
    * if your service does not have traditional e2e tests, add atleast a single deployment qualitifacation test to any endpoint e.g.,/wellness. sample test can be found here: [src/test/e2e/wellness.spec.js](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.training.demoprovider/blob/feature/medusa/tests/e2e/wellness.spec.js)
  5. DeploymentManifest -> new name and location under pipeline/deploymentManifests/deploymentManifest.yaml
  6. DeploymentManifest -> remove `ErrorStatusCode` from manifest
  7. Perf test manifest -> new file added under pipeline/performance/PerformanceDefinition.yaml (uses the jmx test file name, without the extn, at the top level)
  8. Loadgen -> go to [the new loadgen UI](http://loadgen-fe.ekse-useast1.eks.eis-deliverydevqa.cloud/) and ensure that any services you own have an entry under the `dev3` tab. If your service was previously registered for passive traffic generation, you may copy the service name and service url from the `dev2` tab, but make sure to replace "ekse" with "eksf" in the url value.
  9. build.gradle updates documented [here](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#java-springboot-projects) that include:
    * add `apply from: 'repositories.gradle'` line
    * add [repositories.gradle](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.training.demoprovider/blob/feature/medusa/repositories.gradle) for local development. medusa will overwrite this.
    * remove repository{} and artifactory{} blocks from build.gradle
    * update build.gradle with new paths for the e2etests task block
    * add jacocoIntegrationTestReport task
    * add createProperties task
    * add local repositories.gradle file
    * see this branch for diffs and other changes for this section: [build.gradle diffs for medusa](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.training.demoprovider/compare/feature/medusa?expand=1#diff-c197962302397baf3a4cc36463dce5ea)
  10. Branch names MUST follow the `feature/branchname` convention or medusa will not build the branch.
  11. Perf tests should use `host` and `port` variables instead of hardcoding the domain endpoints for the test. For more info, please refer to this [conversation](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/message/19:a2a0927486e74b35bbd033a54fc5495c@thread.skype/1544216788391?tenantId=50fa36ca-7dd3-44f1-9e3f-1bf39a3963a5&groupId=9b1ce806-0126-471c-8e35-77b3115110e6&parentMessageId=1544216788391&teamName=RefArch1.5%20Feedback%20Chat%20Set&channelName=Troubleshooting&createdTime=1544216788391).

* Going forward, all Java services must leverage the Logging and Tracing aspects of the `Java PDKs`, and may leverage the Metrics aspect (useful for providing a drill-down of service => method-level metrics, but otherwise not necessary for basic operation). See the appropriate READMEs for instructions on installation and use: [Logging](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.logging/blob/master/README.md) | [Tracing](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.tracing/blob/master/README.md) | [Metrics](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.metrics/blob/master/README.md)

* **NodeJS Services Checklist** (please see release notes below for more info on each of these)
  1. Node services will continue to run on the `refarch15a` Jenkins server.
  2. Jenkinsfile -> use `application` namespace for preview and deploy hydra commands, or don't specify namespace. See release notes below for more info.
  3. DeploymentManifest -> remove `ErrorStatusCode` from manifest.
  4. Updated node PDK available (2.0.0) -> please see [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [usage guide](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/usage.md) for more info. If upgrading from ^1.0.0, you may also find it useful to [refer to the changes in this pull request](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/discover.shared.ebsconext-edge/pull/52/files) when upgrading your own project.
  5. Loadgen -> go to [the new loadgen UI](http://loadgen-fe.ekse-useast1.eks.eis-deliverydevqa.cloud/) and ensure that any services you own have an entry under the `dev3` tab. If your service was previously registered for passive traffic generation, you may copy the service name and service url from the `dev2` tab, but make sure to replace "ekse" with "eksf" in the url value.

* **Other Changes**
  1. The background load generator app has a [new UI](http://loadgen-fe.ekse-useast1.eks.eis-deliverydevqa.cloud) to help making updates to service urls at cluster-level. Please see this section for more info: [Automated traffic generation in the cluster](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.training.refarch1.5-devguide/blob/master/guides/Deploy.md#automated-traffic-generation-in-the-cluster)

* **Known issues with I4 Upgrade**
  1. stubs.jar for contract tests cannot be published by medusa as yet. We're trying to fix this with a short-term workaround but until then teams can use the `gradlew artifactoryPublish` command from their local workstations if a stub needs to be published on Friday (12/7).
  2. Perf test assertions are not being made by medusa right now. Please verify the jmeter HTML report for the outcome of the tests. The assertions will be automated during the I6 upgrade.

### DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES

* **New EKS cluster (Dev3)**
  * A new kubernetes cluster has been created.  Teams must rerun their pipelines to deploy to the new kubernetes cluster.
  * You must update all references to the old cluster with the new cluster URL.  The URL is the similar to the old cluster but uses eksf instead of ekse.
    * `New Cluster URL: eksf-useast1.eks.eis-deliverydevqa.cloud`
  * This cluster includes resiliancy changes and several updates

* **Deployment manifest (hydra/default.yaml)**
  * ErrorStatusCode is being deprecated. Your deployments will continue to succeed until the next release, but after that ErrorStatusCode will no longer be supported. If you have it defined in your manifest, your build will pass but you'll notice a warning message in the console. If the key is removed your build will pass without the warning. We recommend you remove it as soon as possible.

  Below is an example of what your manifest might look like. The line `ErrorStatusCodes: ['429']` is deprecated and should be removed.

  ```
  Metrics:
    - Type: Error
      ErrorStatusCodes: ['429']
      PercentErrors: 5
      PercentIncrease: 1
  ```

* **Jenkinsfile**
  * If you are NOT migrating to Medusa AND using the pipeline library, you need to update your `hydraPreview` and `hydraDeploy` commands. If you specified a namespace other than "application", change the namespace to "application" or remove namespace entirely. By default your service will be deployed to the "application" namespace. Note `instances:` is not required for hydraDeploy. The value is pulled from the deployment manifest. See example below.

  ```
  withNodeWrapper(platformDefaults.getDeployNodeLabel()) {
    hydraPreview deployEnv: "dev", instances: 1"
    hydraDeploy deployEnv: "dev"
  }
  ```

  Please contact Team Cahaba or EA team members on the RefArch1.5 Troubleshooting Channel for support or to provide feedback if there are any issues.

* **The following changes apply ONLY to those projects which are adopting Medusa in I4:**

 * **New Jenkins Server (refarch15b)**
   * use label `refarch15b` **When switching labels, delete the old label and create a new label with 'refarch15b' __**do not edit the existing label**__**
   *  Create New Label for Repository called `jenkins-refarch15b` (for medusa only), or `jenkins-refarch15a`
     * This will create the project on the Jenkins Server and create necessary webhooks for the Github Repository
     * To move your job from https://jenkins-refarch15a.eis-platformlive.cloud to https://jenkins-refarch15b.eis-platformlive.cloud
       * Remove the `jenkins-refarch15a`  label from your repo
       * Confirm job was removed from https://jenkins-refarch15a.eis-platformlive.cloud
       * Add a new label `jenkins-refarch15b` to your repo
       * Confirm job was added from https://jenkins-refarch15b.eis-platformlive.cloud
       * __**Editing the label instead of removing and re-adding will not work**__
   * url for new Jenkins server: https://jenkins-refarch15b.eis-platformlive.cloud
   * the only library supported in refarch15b is medusa
   * developers can no longer abort builds


  * **Application Definition metadata**
    * The format of the Application Definition file has changed in order to better support non-microservice projects (e.g., medusa, hydra). See [here for schema](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#application-definition-file)
      * **Action**: ensure that your application definition adheres to the new schema

  * **AWS Cost Tag Metadata**
    * The costtagextractor component has been replaced by functionality in Medusa.
    * The source of truth for allowed content in AWS cost management tags has changed. Metadata is now sourced from the [Medusa Data Validator repository](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa-data-validator).
    * The allowed content of the AWS cost management tags has changed to better reflect the desired state.
      * **Action**: ensure that the `Domain`, `Market`, `Team`, and `Art` fields within your application manifest contain valid values (see [AWS Cost Tag Application Metadata](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa-data-validator#aws-cost-tag-application-metadata))

  * **Repository Names**
    * Repository names are now being validated by the Medusa against the application definition
        * Repository name **MUST** match `domain.market.applicationName.git`
        * **Action**: rename repository BEFORE attaching it to new Jenkins

  * **Deployment Manifest**
    * As described in the [Medusa Readme Deployment Manifest File](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa/blob/master/README.md#deployment-manifest-file) section, your deployment manifest file must be moved into `pipeline/deploymentManifest/` within your project repo. It must also be named `deploymentManifest.yaml`

  * **Performance Test Files:** As described in the [Medusa Readme Performance Tests](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa/blob/master/README.md#performance-tests) section, performance tests must be moved into `tests/performance/` within your project repo. Also described there is a Performance Definition file that must be added to your repo in `pipeline/performance/`

  * **End-to-End Test Files:** As described in the [Medusa Readme End-to-End Tests](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa/blob/master/README.md#end-to-end-tests) section, end-to-end tests must be moved into `tests/e2e/` within your project repo.

  * **Branch names:** [Medusa] supports building from branches that conform to a strict naming convention, i.e. Java Spring Boot microservice development branches must be prefixed with `feature/`. Full details of [Medusa] branch name support can be found [here in the Medusa Readme](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa/blob/master/README.md#repository-branches)

  * **Versioning Change** [Medusa] changes the versioning method used to Semantic Versioning.  This replaces prior versioning scheme that utilized commit IDs. Every Medusa build will create a new version. This means that clicking "Build Now" will generate a new version and docker artifact.

  * **Java Platform Development Kits (PDKs)** This change affects you if you:
    * started a Java-based Ref Arch 1.5 service **without** using the Scaffolding Generator
    * used the Java Scaffolding Generator to create a new service before 11/26/2018. *Note any repo created with the Java Scaffolding Generator after 11/26/2018 will automatically include these PDKs.*

    How this impacts you:

    Going forward, all Java services **must** leverage the Logging and Tracing aspects of the Java PDK, and **may** leverage the Metrics aspect (useful for providing a drill-down of service => method-level metrics, but otherwise not necessary for basic operation). See the appropriate READMEs for instructions on installation and use:

    * [Logging](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.logging/blob/master/README.md)
    * [Tracing](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.tracing/blob/master/README.md)
    * [Metrics](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.metrics/blob/master/README.md)

    Please refer to the section below under *New Features* for more information on the PDKs.

* **Node Platform Development Kit (PDK) v2.0.0** This change affects you if you:

  * own a Node-based Ref Arch 1.5 service

  How this impacts you:

  If you do not already utilize the Node PDK, you will need to install it; see [usage guide](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/usage.md).

  If you already pulled in ^1.0.0 of the PDK, the 2.0.0 release introduces some breaking changes that will necessitate updates in consuming projects; see [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) and [usage guide](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/usage.md).

  Please refer to the section below under *New Features* for more information on this PDK release.

### NEW FEATURES:

* **Medusa Pipeline for Java Spring Boot Microservices:** The [Medusa] pipeline is being released. Currently it supports an end-to-end CI/CD pipeline for the _Java Spring Boot_ flavor of microservices. Services using the Medusa will no longer be able to reference the old [pipelineLibrary](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.pipelinelibrary).
  * To migrate to the Medusa Pipeline, follow the detailed instructions in the [Medusa Pipeline Library Readme](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#manual-setup-and-migrating-from-refArch-10)
  * _Java Spring Boot_ specific reference documentation in this 'devguide' has been added. 2 new files with `-JSB` in their names have been added to reflect the differences in deployment and development that will exist between the I4 and I6 architecture releases. We expect to resolve those difference by the I6 release.
    * [Deploy-JSB.md](./Deploy-JSB.md)
    * [Development_Operating_Procedures-JSB.md](./Development_Operating_Procedures-JSB.md)

* **Torch tool:** The torch is a tool for making assertions on an application based on prometheus queries. It is being used by **[Medusa]** to assert that traffic hitting a test pod came from a validator pod as part of e2e tests.

* **Preview Environments for Feature branches** [Medusa] consumers get the benefit of preview environments created for each feature branch. These preview environments live for 2 hours, but are recreated if needed by subsequent commits to the feature branch (or by clicking "Build Now" on the Jenkins job).

* **Hydra CPU & Memory requests/limits:** Hydra now supports resource (CPU and memory) request and limits. Resource requests helps Kubernetes decide which Node to use when scheduling your service pod. Resource limits prevent any single service or pod from hogging all the CPU and memory on a given Node.
  * [Kubernetes Documentation on Resource Requests and Limits](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/)
  * [Hydra Documentation on Resource Requests and Limits](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.hydra/wiki/Deployment-Manifest#resources-policy-optional)
  * Default values for Resource Requests and Limits if not specified
  ```yaml
  Resources:
    Requests:
      Memory: 512Mi
      CPU: 50m
    Limits:
      Memory: 2Gi
      CPU: 1000m
  ```

* **Hydra Improved Messaging:** Hydra now outputs more helpful messages to standard out. These messages will appear in the Jenkins console with links to the troubleshooting wiki.

* **Hydra Preview Environments:**
    * Preview environments are deleted on a 2 hour timer and not when a pull request is closed. You can create another preview environment by rerunning your build.
    * Both platform.infrastructure.pipelinelibrary and Medusa will use the same version of Hydra for both preview environments and deployments.

* **Java Platform Development Kits (PDKs)**

  Java PDKs for logging, metrics, and tracing are now available for ref arch 1.5 services. These PDKs are a shared libraries that offload instrumentation responsibility from individual microservices. PDKs also provide an efficient way to upgrade or provide enhancements in the future in these domains.

  * [Logging PDK](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.logging) Benefits
    * Outputs a standard JSON format log for consumption by fluentd
    * Handles multiline output
    * Provides a logging throttling capability to not overload sumologic.
  * [Metrics PDK](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.metrics) Benefits
    * To allow for implicit data collection for a set of standardized reports for RED signals
    * To allow for low effort additions of common metric patterns
    * For more detailed documentation on the metrics pdk work flow see: [MetricsPipeline](MetricsPipeline.md)
    * Unlike Ref Arch 1.0, it may not be necessary for you to do any additional work to create observability visualizations other than use this PDK. Consult with EA for guidance on how the to meet observability NFR requirements.
  * [Tracing PDK](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.tracing) Benefits
    * Enables tracing between services in Ref Arch 1.5
    * Current Implemented Tracing
    * REST via RestTemplate
    * Propagate EBSCO Custom Headers between services

  **Code Snippets are available in the readme for each PDK repo along with instructions on how to load the PDK into your project. Please review documentation and reach out on the [RefArch1.5 Troubleshooting Channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3aa2a0927486e74b35bbd033a54fc5495c%40thread.skype/Troubleshooting?groupId=9b1ce806-0126-471c-8e35-77b3115110e6&tenantId=50fa36ca-7dd3-44f1-9e3f-1bf39a3963a5) if there are any questions.**

* **Node Platform Development Kit (PDK) v2.0.0**
  The Node PDK is the combined solution providing logging, metrics, and tracing for Express-based ref arch 1.5 services. Like the Java PDK, the Node PDK greatly reduces the development time for microservices by implicitly instrumenting what it can, and providing an intuitive API for explicitly instrumenting what it can't.

  * [Logging](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/usage.md#logging) Benefits
    * Outputs a standard JSON format log for consumption by fluentd
    * Handles multiline output
    * Automatically handles uncaught errors in other middleware and logs appropriately
  * [Metrics](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/usage.md#metrics) Benefits
    * Allows for implicit data collection for a set of standardized reports for RED signals
    * Allows for low-effort additions of common metric patterns
    * Unlike Ref Arch 1.0, it may not be necessary for you to do any additional work to create observability visualizations other than use this PDK. Consult with EA for guidance on how the to meet observability NFR requirements.
  * [Tracing](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/blob/master/usage.md#tracing) Benefits
    * Enables tracing between services in Ref Arch 1.5
    * Propagate EBSCO Custom Headers between services

  The 2.0.0 release of the Node PDK fixes some important issues surrounding metrics collection (see [#46](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/issues/46) and [#49](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/issues/49)), as well as error logging (see [#53](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/issues/53)). It also allows for appconfig to be passed explicitly via function arguments rather than via project-root config files (see [#42](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.node-express-pdk/issues/42)).

### BUG FIXES
* Fixes issue where old service pods aren't deleted