## PI13 - I1

### OVERVIEW

- **Deployment and Infrastructure updates**: Preview Environments for Multiple Services and Vault support are among the new features being delivered with this upgrade cadence for the infrastructure. A number of stability improvements have also been built into the cluster.
- **PDKs**: For java services, the PDKs have been consolidated into a single repository to simplify the workflows to manage these. Some bug fixes and new features are also available for tracing and metrics modules.
- **Medusa**: Publishing of stubs for java services is now supported. Java services should also take advantage of the gradle `plugins` DSL in their `build.gradle` files instead of the `apply` section. Performance quality gate will now include the ability to make assertions on 95th percentile response time. Also, jmeter logs are archived with builds. Sonar quality gate will be run on feature as well as master branch builds now. E2E tests will be run in preview envs as well.
- **Hydra**: 100% Canary stages are no longer supported in deployment manifests. The manifest now supports PodDisruptionBudgets to maintain high availability for services. Additionally, Hydra now provides improved diagnostic output during stage validation in the build console logs.

#### Checklist

**INFRASTRUCTURE**
- New Cluster `dev4`: `EksH-VpcA-useast1-DeliveryDevQA-Dev4`. Kube config file available [here](../files/kubeconfig-dev4)
- [Monitoring tools page](: )http://monitoring.eksh-useast1.eks.eis-deliverydevqa.cloud)
- **New jenkins server** [jenkins-refarch15c](https://jenkins-refarch15c.eis-platformlive.cloud) for medusa-based projects (primarily Java services).
- For Node and other services on refarch1.5: [jenkins-refarch15a](https://jenkins-refarch15a.eis-platformlive.cloud)

Here's a summary of changes required for the refarch1.5 services. Please see the detailed sections in this guide for more details on any of these.

**ALL services**

1. `pipeline/deploymentManifest.yaml` updates
  - a) Fix pipeline/deploymentManifest.yaml if you have the Canary stage set to 100% weight. This value should be <100%.
  - b) *Optional*: Add `PodDisruptionBudgets` section if you'd like to customize the values for pod distuption budget for your service. `minAvailable` will default to 50% if this section is not present.
2. *Optional*: To leverage multi-service preview, add a properly configured previewManifest.yaml file to your project's `pipeline/previewManifests` directory. See the detailed release notes further below for more information.
3. *Optional*: If you'd like to leverage Vault for secrets management, please contact EA to coordinate on the recommended workflows to adopt the same.

**JAVA services**

Apply the following changes, in addition to the ones in the *All services* section above.

1. Follow the steps from the release notes to switch to the `refarch15c`, the [new jenkins server](https://jenkins-refarch15c.eis-platformlive.cloud) for all services that use `medusa`.
2. `build.gradle` file updates. Please see this [PR](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.jsb-cookiecutter/pull/2/files) for the diffs of changes made to the jsb-template repo to support this upgrade. Please make sure to verify that all the changes are made in case of build failures.
  - PDK changes
      - Replace PDK versions in `ext` section to use a single version for the new consolidated PDK only.
      - Change `dependencies` section to use the single consolidated PDK only.
      - Replace `createProperties` section to use the new consolidated PDK.
  - Remove all instances of `version` setting in the build.gradle file.
  - Remove `apply plugin: ...` statements and replace instead with `plugins{}` block.
  - Add `settings.gradle` file. See example [here](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.jsb-cookiecutter/blob/master/settings.gradle).
  - Replace `apply from: repositories.gradle` with `apply from: medusa.gradle`. This should be after the `plugins{}` block.
    - *NOTE: Rename the file in the repo as well to allow local builds to pass.*
  - *Optional*: Include spring-cloud-contract statement in `plugins{}` block if you require publishing `stubs.jar` for consumer-driven contract testing.
    - *NOTE: Additional chages are required to the ContractTestBase class to support the latest version of the SCC plugin and JUnit5 framework for tests. Please see scaffolding template [ContractVerifierBase.java](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.jsb-cookiecutter/blob/master/src/test/java/com/ebsco/_cookiecutter_domain_/_cookiecutter_market_/_cookiecutter_javaapp_/contract/ContractVerifierBase.java). [Diff](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.jsb-cookiecutter/commit/751fd70e9b2bb2347a75298ee383a2b5dd8e1d7f#diff-24cc808d05eb60149a6f3d8d65f054ce).
3. Ensure that `NinetyFifthPercentile` KPI is specified as part of the [performanceDefinition.yaml](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa/tree/release/1#performance-tests) file.

**NODE services**

No additional updates, just the ones in the *All Services* section above.

### DEPRECATIONS/CHANGES

#### New Jenkins Server (refarch15c) for services that use Medusa

**NOTE: Jenkins server jenkins-refarch15b will be decommissioned at the end of I2, if your project is on jenkins-refarch15b, it needs to be migrated to jenkins-refarch15c**

- url for new Jenkins server: https://jenkins-refarch15c.eis-platformlive.cloud
- use label `jenkins-refarch15c`. **When switching labels, delete the old label and create a new label with 'jenkins-refarch15c' do not edit the existing label**
- Create New Label for Repository called `jenkins-refarch15c` (for medusa only), or `jenkins-refarch15a`
- This will create the project on the Jenkins Server and create necessary webhooks for the Github Repository
- To move your job from https://jenkins-refarch15b.eis-platformlive.cloud to https://jenkins-refarch15c.eis-platformlive.cloud
  - Remove the `jenkins-refarch15b` label from your repo
  - Confirm job was removed from https://jenkins-refarch15b.eis-platformlive.cloud
  - Add a new label `jenkins-refarch15c` to your repo
  - Confirm job was added from https://jenkins-refarch15c.eis-platformlive.cloud
  - Editing the label instead of removing and re-adding will not work
- The only library supported in `jenkins-refarch15c` is `medusa`

#### Hydra dropping support for 100% canary stages

Hydra will now throw an exception if the weight on a Canary deployment stage is set to 100. Having all traffic routed to the canary service version causes issues with stage validation and is considered an anti-pattern.

#### Gradle file changes [build.gradle file]

- Application of `repositories.gradle` file is being renamed to `medusa.gradle`. Users must change `apply from: repositories.gradle` -> `apply from: medusa.gradle` in their `build.gradle` file. Please see https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#buildgradle-file.
- Usage of `version` is now deprecated. All instances of `version` setting in the `build.gradle` file must be removed. This is now controlled by Medusa.
- Application of plugins should now be done using the [Gradle plugins DSL](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/plugins.html) rather than legacy `apply plugin:` statements.

#### Java PDKs Consolidation

- Java PDKs are consolidated into one repository: **[platform.libraries.java](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.libraries.java)**.
- **NOTE:** The old [Metrics](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.metrics), [Tracing](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.tracing) and [Logging](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.shared.logging) repositories are archived and will not be updated going forward.
- Java Spring Boot applications should switch to new consolidated PDK available at [platform.libraries.java](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.libraries.java). In `build.gradle` make the following changes:
  - Replace PDK versions in `ext` section from
    ```gradle
    // PDK versions
    pdkLoggingVersion = '0.1.2'
    pdkMetricsVersion = '0.1.1'
    pdkTracingVersion = '0.2.0'
    ```
    with
    ```gradle
    pdkVersion = '0.1.+'
    ```
  - Change `dependencies` from
    ```gradle
    // EBSCO Ref Arch 1.5 PDKs
    implementation group: 'com.ebsco', name: 'platform.shared.logging', version: pdkLoggingVersion
    implementation group: 'com.ebsco', name: 'platform.shared.metrics', version: pdkMetricsVersion
    implementation group: 'com.ebsco', name: 'platform.shared.tracing', version: pdkTracingVersion
    ```
    to
    ```gradle
    // EBSCO Ref Arch 1.5 PDK
    compile group: 'com.ebsco', name: 'platform.libraries.java', version: "${pdkVersion}"
    ```
  - Replace `createProperties` from
    ```gradle
    task createProperties(dependsOn: processResources) {
        doLast {
            new File("$projectDir/build/resources/main/pdkversion.properties").withWriter { w ->
                Properties p = new Properties()
                p['springboot.version'] = springBootVersion
                p['pdk.logging.version'] = pdkLoggingVersion
                p['pdk.metrics.version'] = pdkMetricsVersion
                p['pdk.tracing.version'] = pdkTracingVersion
                p.store w, null
            }
        }
    }
    ```
    to
    ```gradle
    task createProperties(dependsOn: processResources) {
      doLast {
        new File("$projectDir/build/resources/main/pdkversion.properties").withWriter { w ->
          Properties p = new Properties()
          p['springboot.version'] = springBootVersion
          p['pdk.version'] = getResolvedVersionOf('platform.libraries.java')
          p.store w, null
        }
      }
    }        ```

### NEW FEATURES

#### CDC Stub Publication

- Consumer driven contract stubs will now be published for all JSB services.
- All users must include the `spring-cloud-contract` plugin in their `build.gradle` file. Please see [here](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#buildgradle-file) for more information.
  - Example inclusion statement for `plugins` block:
    ```gradle
    id 'spring-cloud-contract' version '2.0.2.RELEASE'
    ```

#### 95th Percentile Performance Checks

- Through the usage of [torch](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.torch) and Prometheus, a 95th percentile check will now be performed following the JMeter performance tests. This check aims to verify that the response time of at least 95 percent of the requests made to the service during the performance test run are lower than a given KPI. This KPI is specified as part of the [performanceDefinition.yaml](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa/tree/release/1#performance-tests) file. See [Medusa README](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#performance-tests) for more information.

#### Performance Log Archiving

- When the performance test step fails at any point, Medusa will now attempt to archive both the performance test `.log` and `.jtl` files. This should help with debugging testing problems even in the event where no performance reports are generated.

#### End-to-End Tests in Preview Envs

- End-to-End tests will now be run against preview environments for PR and feature branch builds. This should provide increased confidence for successful deployment of master branch.

#### Gradle Plugins DSL

- JSB services should now take advantage of gradle `plugins` DSL in their `build.gradle` files.
  - Prior limitation of the way `spring-cloud-contract` plugin was published required the usage of the legacy gradle `apply` functionality. This deficiency has been accounted for in Medusa, enabling the recommended use of the `plugins` DSL.
  - Please see Medusa [`build.gradle`](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.medusa#buildgradle-file) documentation for more information about recommended construction of `build.gradle` file.

#### Feature Branch SonarQube Analysis

- Previously, SonarQube code analysis was only performed for PR/master branch builds. This has now been extended to feature branches.

#### Java PDK enhancements

- Tracing:
  - Bug fixes related to trace data not being reported to jaeger by some projects (when @Autowired RestTemplate is not used).
  - Added support for tracing of SOAP requests.
- Metrics: `@Gauge` annotations now support custom tags.

#### Hydra support for Pod Disruption Budget

The deployment manifest now supports PodDisruptionBudgets. Please see [here](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.hydra/wiki/Deployment-Manifest#pod-disruption-policy-optional) for more information. This tells Kubernetes how many pods need to remain active for a service to be considered available. It helps to ensure services remain available when nodes are taken down for maintenance. The default value is 50%.

#### Hydra improved diagnostic output

- Hydra now prints out more detailed information during stage validation.
- Hydra also now displays Pod logs and events when a deployment fails during Crashloop detection.

#### Vault Secrets

Applications can now use Secrets from Vault to gain access to various resources such as the AWS Environment and Databases.
- This is driven by adding a new key to the deployment manifest yaml file or the preview manifest yaml file (on the same level as `Timeout`).
- The key `SecretsRequired: True` will allow applications access to secrets.
- These secrets will be stored in the file `config/secrets`.
- Check the [Vault Release Notes](https://ebscoind-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/g/personal/agarikipati_corp_epnet_com/EfPwL_BXu25JprfjPdWl4x0B3mRC9CAM5Ztz-ErhjDJw8w?e=ZfXfTh) on how to configure Vault for specific secrets, and the extra steps needs to place the required files in the correct folders.
- **NOTE**: Default Behaviour is `SecretsRequired: False` so if the key is missing, then the secrets mechanism will not be added to the deployment.

#### Hydra Preview Environment Multiple Services

Hydra now allows you to create an isolated preview environment which includes not just your application but also any dependent or related services. This is driven through a previewManifest.yaml file that lives in your project under `pipeline/previewManifests`. Check the [hydra preview documentation](https://github.com/EBSCOIS/platform.infrastructure.hydra/tree/release/3#multi-service-preview-environments))

- **NOTE:** The preview environments from PI12-I4 drop will still be the default behavior. You will only get a multi-service preview if a properly configured previewManifest.yaml file exists in your project's `pipeline/previewManifests` directory.
